Oh, my God.
It will all come together.
JEFF: Part two of our
Dance Moms reunion.
It's okay to be competitive.
I am very competitive.
Jill, I think it's time
for you to shut up.
-That's rude.
-I will do whatever my kids want to do.
I think that's sick.
-I kept hearing the (bleep).
-Let her talk. Let her talk.
I thought I was gonna have to fight.
It seems like there's a lot of tension.
What's on your necklace?
They're all the mothers
that didn't listen.
The women of Dance Moms
reunite right here.
(gasps)
It's always a pleasure
to be amongst this group.
(theme song playing)
SINGER:
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
Hi, everybody.
Welcome to part two
of Dance Moms, the reunion.
I'm Jeff Collins,
the executive producer of the show.
And we're here with the women
who make the show
so riveting to watch,
Melissa Gisoni,
Dr. Holly Frazier, Christi Lukasiak,
Kelly Hyland, and Jill Vertes.
Hi, Jeff.
And of course,
the fabulous Abby Miller.
-Thank you.
-JEFF: So good to have you.
Joining us this hour is the owner
of Candy Apples Dance Studio
in Canton, Ohio, Cathy Nesbitt-Stein.
It's always a pleasure
to be amongst this group.
All right, so, ladies,
let's get right to it.
Cathy, we all know
that there's nothing
you love more than being
at the center of attention,
especially when you chose
to choreograph a special mother's dance
that didn't exactly go
the way everyone had planned.
Let's take a look at this.
(applause)
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪ That lass has class ♪
♪ This chick is hip ♪
♪ And if she takes you on her ride,
it's a real crazy time ♪
Oh, my God.
SINGER: ♪ Those lips, those hips ♪
♪ Beyond compare ♪
♪ That sway so gently as they twist ♪
♪ The moment that she... ♪
KELLY: What is she doing?
What is she doing?
Look at Kelly's eyes.
She changed the dance.
CATHY: I pretty much
took center stage.
And I improvised.
But I think that the moms
probably should have expected
that being a dance teacher,
I was going to put some
of my own thing into it to jazz it up.
They should have expected that.
And if they didn't,
then they got caught
with their pants down.
CATHY:
She's doing a solo out there.
What is she doing?
SINGER: ♪ Gotta be kissed ♪
♪ Oh, yeah ♪
-♪ She's gotta be kissed! ♪
-(bleep).
SINGER:
♪ Make no mistake about it ♪
♪ That chick's sure gettin' kissed ♪
(applause)
CHRISTI: Cathy was in her little,
like, Candy Apple heaven.
I'm gonna kick her ass.
(laughter)
All right, you got
to give it up for Cathy.
She certainly stole the spotlight.
Did you plan that?
Did you know exactly
what you were doing?
You know,
I had to do something.
I was working with people that
just were totally inept
when it came to dance.
I was trying to give
grunge a taste to Melissa.
I was trying--well, Christi could only do
just a little hands jazz thing.
I had to pull it together.
I mean, this was Abby's recital.
I didn't want it to flop for Abby, so--
Whoa, wait a minute.
See, Cathy, that's just it.
That's bad choreography.
That was a bad idea.
It's a mom's dance.
You use a novelty.
You make the maids
like Carol Burnett.
You go out there,
you do something fun.
You don't make people
that don't dance for a living
go out there and mortify themselves.
Christi over here
was a little rah-rah pom pom girl.
And Kelly--well,
we all know Kelly was from you.
So I would have expected Kelly
to be able to just hop
-right on something--
-Kelly hasn't danced in 20 years.
JILL:
If you were a good choreographer,
-you would have seen--
-Jill, you weren't even in the dance.
-JILL: I know. I just saw it.
-I know.
I was given a criteria.
And I also had to come up
with costumes.
And you know,
with what I had to deal with--
You had 40-year-old women
in stirrup tights.
-CATHY: Here's the thing, though, Abby--
-You could have put them in heels.
CATHY: Here's the thing.
You could have done
a little novelty number...
-CATHY: Abby, but here's the thing.
-...a little lingerie thing.
Abby, I'm trying to do
something cutting edge
and give them cute, stylish costumes...
Cutting edge?
-...that are kind of--kind of cabaret...
-CHRISTI: They were not cute and stylish.
-CATHY: ...looking...
-Do a jazz--you wear--cabaret,
you should have had heels.
-Well, Abby...
-ABBY: Cabaret.
-...we wanted--we wanted the moms...
-ABBY: Fosse, we get it.
...we wanted the moms
to be able to dance.
We didn't want them
to be toppling off stage,
which is exactly what you would have
loved to see happen with them.
No, I just wanted them
to entertain the audience
-and have a good time up there.
-ABBY: Well, and that we did.
JEFF: Abby, you--you said--
you said that this dance
should never have seen
the light of day.
-Correct.
-JEFF: What--what--how--
what do you give Cathy for--
if you were scoring Cathy,
what would you give Cathy
as a score
for choreographing that dance?
70 out of 100.
-HOLLY: That's pretty good.
-ABBY: No.
Well, that's probably--
what, is that a high goal?
That's, like, not even bronze, no.
So Cathy, the Candy Apple dancers
have only beat Abby's group once...
-Right.
-JEFF: ...by 1/10 of a point.
-Correct.
-JEFF: So how does that feel?
We have seen Abby earlier on
in years that we have beat her.
She knows it.
I know it.
So it's a little frustrating.
But I would rather look
upon our rivalry
as good healthy competition
than it a vindictive thing.
So could it be that
she's just better than you?
Hmm.
I don't know that Abby's better than me.
I think what Abby's girls have
is star quality, to be honest.
I think that that's what her girls have
that we might have to continue
to work on for a while.
So Cathy, when Jill came back
to Abby Lee...
Hi, everyone.
Abby, can I talk to you?
I'm right in the middle
of the pyramid.
You know how this works.
I made a mistake
going to Candy Apples.
You guys know that.
It--it was a mistake.
...how did that make you feel?
I wasn't really sad to see Jill go.
-Sorry, Jill.
-Newsflash.
-CATHY: Sorry, Jill.
-Oh, please, like I didn't know.
You know, she came in,
and it was fun at first.
Yeah, this is great
because we've got
one of Abby's castoffs.
And it's going to be
a little bit of fun to maybe
rib Abby about it a little bit.
You welcomed us.
You said, absolutely...
-I did welcome you.
-...I have a place for Kendall.
-CATHY: He didn't ask me...
-She's talented.
She has potential.
...he didn't ask me about how I felt
when you came through the door.
He asked me how I felt...
-JILL: But you were saying...
-...when the door hit you...
-JILL: ...she came--she came...
-...in the butt on the way out.
...she came in, and she didn't fit in.
But that's not what you said.
You said, I have great plans
for Kendall.
-Jill, he asked me how I felt--
-JILL: And I believed you, Cathy.
Listen, Barbie,
-he asked me how I felt...
-ABBY: That's a compliment. Say thank you.
-...when you left.
-JILL: Shut up.
And I wasn't really saddened
to see you go.
I was actually rather happy
to see you go because you...
-That's rude. You're rude.
-CATHY: ...whined too much.
You know that.
She whines too much.
Lucky for you,
you got a little siete out of it.
And you got a nice little
back massage out of it.
You didn't bring me any gifts.
My kids know that they come in,
they get the correction.
They leave.
They come back, I better see the...
-JILL: You know what?
-...next time.
I didn't see that with Kendall.
And it just didn't work.
It just didn't work.
So I really wasn't that sad.
Did I say I didn't like you?
No, I didn't say I didn't like you.
I just said I didn't really--
it--it didn't really bother me
that you left.
But you hurt me very badly.
And you broke Kendall's heart.
Jill, I think that
you're over the edge.
I think it's time for you to shut up.
That's rude.
All right, well--
I don't think that
we were disputing that one iota.
All right, so beating Abby
at a dance competition
has always been Cathy's mission.
So when Candy Apples seemed
to play fast and loose
with the rules,
was Cathy just being determined,
or was it simply cheating?
Take a look at this.
MELISSA: She doesn't seem like
she was from Cathy's studio at all.
Exactly.
-She's at least 50.
-Yeah.
CHRISTI: There's no way
that kid is 11, 12.
I don't think so, either.
CATHY: Hello.
I was just wondering if we could talk
to Cathy and Erika's mom.
CATHY: Sure.
-If you guys would come upstairs with me.
-CATHY: Mm-hmm.
We've got a lot of people questioning--
-Yeah.
-Erika.
-Yes.
-Erika's age.
-Yeah.
We have people complaining
that they have seen her perform
in the 14 age division
at other competitions.
CATHY: Okay,
so I don't have birth certificates.
I didn't have to have birth certificates
at the last--
Let me ask you a question.
How old is Erika
and her date of birth?
-Erika is 14.
-WOMAN: Correct.
January 17, 1997.
-So '97, she's 13, 14 then.
-CATHY: Yeah.
All right,
she is in the wrong age division.
And so is Brooke.
Okay, I'll take that up
in a minute with Abby.
We definitely need to take that up.
-WOMAN: Okay, I will.
-Okay?
WOMAN: I promise you I will.
I happen to have in my hand
your solo music,
which is gorgeous.
But I also happen to know
that it's the same solo music
that Chloe is using.
It's no secret
that you can go online
and find out what the songs are
that the contestants are dancing to.
So I chose Chloe's song for Taylor
just to psych them out.
When I show up in Hollywood,
that Abby Lee Miller
is not going to know what hit her.
(tense music playing)
Is that Chloe's music?
Same song.
CHRISTI: That's your music.
CATHY:
You know, we have beat Abby before.
And statistics are for losers.
So it doesn't matter
whether it's by a tenth of a point.
It doesn't matter
whether it's ninth place,
or 10th place, or whatever.
We have beat Abby before.
Just remember,
my children are nine,
10, 11, one 14-year-old.
She has 15 and 16-year-olds
on her team.
-But Abby--
-ABBY: The skill set for 16-year-old
better be more difficult
than the skill set for a nine-year-old.
Abby, why do competitions
let you average ages?
You can't put a 16-year-old in
with Vivian anymore.
-There are--
-ABBY: They can only drop down
-one age level.
-There are competitions that do that.
You are right.
They're trying to stop teachers like you
from doing that.
We, as dance teachers,
have all average ages.
-ABBY: Absolutely.
-You have as well as I have.
When you're doing a production number,
a line, a large group,
-that comes into play.
-CATHY: Okay.
-ABBY: Right.
-CATHY: You fail to understand
that Taylor may look older,
but she is 11.
I don't fail to understand that. I know.
-CATHY: But Taylor's always--
-I see 11-year-old feet
and 11-year-old knees. I get it.
Taylor is always being targeted
that she's one of the bigger kids
and, you know,
turning around and asking us
what--you know,
what do those kids eat
and all of that kind of--
-those girls are big.
-Okay, Cathy, I get all that.
I understand it.
When those kids go into an audition...
Why does it bother you so badly?
-ABBY: ...they're going to be cast...
-We're not talking about auditions.
ABBY: ...the way they look...
CATHY: We are not talking
about auditions.
...regardless of what
their birth certificate says.
Abby, you don't need to bring
everything back to Broadway.
We're not talking about auditions.
Why does it bother you so badly
what my team configures?
That's not my problem.
That's your problem.
All right, Cathy, here's another question
for you from a viewer.
This is Eddie from Tustin, California,
who wonders, Cathy,
why bring in outside choreographers
to work with your girls?
Do you think your skills
aren't good enough
to stand up to Abby?
Everybody brings in
outside choreographers, everybody.
Abby has had
outside choreographers. Okay.
Oh, I've had lots of them,
and I love them.
-Let her talk. Let her talk.
-CATHY: If you can afford them
and your parents are cooperative,
then you can bring in
outside choreographers.
It's just a fun thing to do.
I don't really think
that bringing in
an outside choreographer
is, like, a mechanism
to win, or lose, or be better.
It's just a fun thing to do.
And it's a fresh new take
on your choreography.
And it gives the children
an opportunity
to dance with somebody
other than you.
I'm here with the fabulous ladies
of the show
who make it happen every week,
make it so exciting.
So Kelly, I have a question
with you and Abby.
You guys have a long history together.
You guys have known each other
for a very long time...
-ABBY: Yes.
-JEFF: ...since you were what, two?
-Two and a half. Mm-hmm.
-JEFF: Two and a half.
You say--and you've said this before
that Abby's jealous of you.
Is that true?
And why do you feel that way?
I don't know that
Abby is jealous of me.
I think that Abby is...
mad at me,
holds a grudge against me.
I don't know
if it's because I quit dance.
You know, when we were younger,
she liked a guy, and he liked me.
I mean, there was--
She was 12, and he was 18, so--
-JEFF: Did she steal your boyfriend?
-I was not 12, but--
Did you steal her boyfriend?
No, he wasn't my boyfriend.
-No, it wasn't her boyfriend.
-JEFF: All right.
-She liked him.
-Did you--did you date him?
I didn't really date him, but--
-Did you kiss him?
-You just did him. Sorry.
Ah!
Jill Vertes!
No, I didn't.
No, but seriously, there's a lot
of tension between you two.
And we see it.
It goes--it goes a long way.
I--I want to know about it. Tell me.
I--I think you would have
to ask Abby that question.
JEFF: Are you jealous
of the life that Kelly has?
No, not at all.
JEFF: So where does this tension
come from?
Don't forget, I was 14
when I started my company.
How can we forget?
You tell us every week.
I think that Kelly had great potential.
And although her dad--
She sure didn't show it in dance,
the mom's dance.
Stop. I didn't feel...
that your mom and dad pushed you
the way they should have.
I think I've done pretty well
for myself
without my parents pushing me.
-And...
-KELLY: I did what I wanted to do.
-...and you keep saying that.
-KELLY: I wanted to get married.
I wanted to have kids.
I wanted to be a stay-at-home mom.
And that's what I did.
Why are you still holding that
against me now?
I'm not holding that against you.
KELLY: Well,
then what's your problem with me?
I will do whatever my kids want to do,
just like my parents did for me.
-ABBY: So you're mad at me...
-And I lived a happy life.
...so you're mad at me because...
-KELLY: I'm not mad at you, Abby.
-...your kids don't want to do this,
but I'm not pushing them to do it.
-Is that what you're saying?
-No, you're mad at me
because I'm letting them
be mediocre, remember?
Right. I am because I think that's sick.
-I think when your child...
-But my kids have to want it.
...is born with a God-given talent
that you should encourage it.
You should push it.
You should make it available to them.
But my kid was born
with a God-given talent.
-And she did win all your titles...
-ABBY: Right.
...and everything just like Maddie did.
And you burnt her out.
-Well, I disagree.
-KELLY: And you kept knocking her down
and knocking her down.
And now, she doesn't want
to dance anymore.
And that's the same thing
that happened with me
right around the same age as Brooke.
It was every day, six days a week,
I was at dance.
I couldn't do anything with my friends.
-I couldn't do...
-Kelly, you were not...
-KELLY: ...any school functions.
-...at dance six days a week.
So you're telling me that Brooke
doesn't want to do it.
But then you're angry with me
for not giving
my every minute
and every energy to Brooke.
Brooke does want to do it.
That's why she's there.
And Brooke wants to do other things.
And that's why I'm giving her
the opportunity.
So Kelly, let me--
let me ask you a question.
At--at nationals, you--
you had a meltdown.
It's hard to watch your kids on stage
and think it's the last time
you're gonna watch them dance.
I just don't want to come back.
Is that because you're seeing
this scenario play out again?
You're seeing this play out
with your daughter
the same way that it played out with you?
I mean, when Brooke tells me that...
she just wants to be
with her friends and wants to--
I mean, I understand it.
I went through it.
I'm not going to force them to dance
for the rest of their life
if that's not what they want.
Then why force me to give them...
-Because I'm paying for dance class.
-...100% of my attention
when they don't really want it?
And I'm paying you
to give them your attention
while they're at class.
I think a lot of the kids don't want it
because you make it
so negative for them.
Why should Paige want it?
You tell her every day
she's not as good as Brooke,
or Mackenzie is not as good as Maddie.
Like, why should they want it?
But when is that going to click in
and they work harder?
They got on stage and go,
well, Miss Abby thinks I suck
because Maddie is better than me,
or Brooke's better than me.
-Like...
-But when is it going to click in...
...why do you think
they even want that?
...and they're gonna say,
I'm going to prove her wrong?
KELLY: But I don't know, Abby.
Everybody is different.
Maybe it hasn't kicked in
for them yet. Maybe...
-ABBY: Right.
-...it has for somebody else.
-Right, maybe it hasn't.
-Every kid is different.
And that's what you don't understand.
After teaching kids for that long,
you don't understand
that every single child
-in this world is different.
-ABBY: I understand that.
-That's why they're all special.
-ABBY: I agree.
Some of them shouldn't dance.
Some of them
shouldn't be at my school.
But just because it doesn't click
for them at age 11
doesn't mean it's not going to click
for them at age 16.
I am the one that's saying...
-KELLY: I know that.
-...let Paige wait.
You don't know
what the future holds.
But you keep telling me to have her quit
because she doesn't want it.
Maybe it just hasn't clicked for her yet.
I have said on many occasions,
I think that it will all
come together for Paige.
I've said it probably to everybody here.
Yeah, but every other word
out of your mouth is,
go ahead and leave.
Your kid is not wanted. They're mediocre.
But I think Paige
needs to have to want it.
It's been handed to her
on a platter.
And maybe she will
if you make her think
that she has the potential to do it.
-I've said it to her, Kelly.
-You are gonna want it,
-and you're going to want to do it.
-Kelly, I don't know,
maybe you're out in the parking lot
or down at Stations Four getting drunk,
I've said it to her over and over
and over again, I've told Paige.
Okay, 100 times more than
you've said that,
you've said something negative to her.
So listen to what you want to.
So Kelly, when you had
this very emotional moment
at nationals, what happened?
-Why did you get so emotional?
-KELLY: Oh, God, I don't know.
I mean, I want my kids to dance
because I always danced,
and I loved it.
And I know my kids love being there.
They love being with the kids.
And I love being with the moms.
I mean, they're like family to me.
And as much as I hate Abby,
I love Abby.
And she's taught me a lot.
I spend more time with Abby
than I do with my own sister.
It's just that it's been
such a big part of my life
that I think it's hard for me
to give it up.
And I think it's hard
for my kids to give up.
And I think this past week,
she was nervous about Brooke.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: She was nervous
because she knew
that I'd done that number before.
And she could go out there,
and she could win it all,
or she could be second.
SINGER:
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
JEFF: So Christi,
it seems like there's a lot of tension
between you and Melissa.
Why don't you ever stand up
to Abby, Melissa?
You always say that
you're her friend.
So you should have a different kind
of a connection with her.
So why don't you ever
stick up for the kids?
MELISSA: I'm so sick of Christi
always getting on me
because my daughter has a gift.
This isn't--stop talking about my daughter
because she's nine years old.
We're not talking about your daughter.
We're talking about...
-Yes.
-...what you enable to happen.
You see what she does
to my kid and her kid,
and you don't stick up for them.
ANNOUNCER: Maddie
from Abby Lee Dance Company.
Congratulations.
You got top scores.
-Give her a big round of applause.
-Undefeated. Aren't ya' happy?
-No. I'm not happy.
-ANNOUNCER: Congratulations.
-You gotta take that big wacky bow.
-Whatever.
JEFF: Can you talk
about that a little bit?
Melissa and I have a long history.
And there's been some things
done in the past
that Melissa has done that...
I don't particularly like.
But she always plays
the I didn't do that, I'm innocent.
And you know,
there's been a lot that's going on
that Melissa has been the root of.
We both have done things
to each other.
But I think that we have
a different understanding now.
The animosity comes from things
that happened in years past.
-Right.
-For instance, Nia had a prop once.
It was a cane.
She was doing a solo.
And Mackenzie took it out,
and she broke it and put it back.
And we saw Mackenzie do it.
And then when Holly confronted Melissa,
Melissa goes,
Kenzie didn't do it.
But we saw her do it.
What I'm saying is just own it.
Melissa always says like,
oh, I don't care if Maddie
is at the top of the pyramid
until Maddie is not
at the top of the pyramid
for three weeks in a row.
And then she gets pissed off.
And she's always trying to play
the I'm so sweet part.
But there's a lot
of underlying things going on.
I think the only thing
that's different is we're on the show
and that you guys have to deal
with each other.
I think you guys still feel
the same way.
They both want their kids
to be on top.
-Mm-hmm.
-And they're the two
that pretty much compete.
Holly and I know our kids
aren't going to be on the top.
It's just the way it is.
Or there are not gonna be
guaranteed solos every week.
Exactly. So for us to fight with them
is totally different.
These two fighting
for the top spot,
that's really what they do every week.
Yeah, but Chloe used
to beat Maddie consistently.
No, she's beat her but not consistently.
I mean, they've been back and forth
and back and forth.
Yes, and when all that happens,
you get very pissed off about it.
And so do you
when Chloe doesn't win.
Yes, but I have learned
how to deal with it.
My daughter learns
And I don't say, everything is fine.
That's where the problems come from
where you're like,
if Maddie doesn't win something,
there's always a reason
or an excuse.
Another time we were sitting
in the audience,
Chloe beat her doing something,
and you screamed,
oh, my God in the audience,
which is fine, Melissa.
It's okay to be competitive.
I'm the first to admit
that I'm competitive.
I am very competitive.
And you know what?
I have a different take on things.
I'm not going to fight
in front of my kids, number one.
I think it's ridiculous.
And first of all,
there's no reason
to fight with each other.
We need to be there for our kids.
And our kids need to learn
how to not to win and--
But as long as your kids are on top,
you feel that way.
Do you think
that Chloe deserved to win
over Maddie at nationals?
I think they were both equally as good.
JEFF: But do you think
Chloe was a better dancer?
No, I can't say that.
I think they were equally--
I think Maddie was flawless.
-And I think Chloe was flawless.
-JEFF: But Chloe won.
Right. I'm not a judge.
And I never pretend to be.
-I think it was great.
-How do you feel about it?
It's good.
If Chloe wasn't as good as she is,
Maddie wouldn't be, either.
If Maddie wasn't doing
four and five, six turns,
Chloe wouldn't be trying to do them
-and Nia and Paige and everybody.
-CHRISTI: I agree with you.
-But what I'm saying is...
-MELISSA: Yes, they do.
...is that that's great for one.
But everybody else is put down.
Let me say one thing to you.
-Every dog has his day.
-CHRISTI: But--
-Every kid's going to have their moment.
-MELISSA: All of our kids want it.
-All of our kids want it.
-ABBY: You know, these two kids
go neck and neck.
JEFF:
Let's change topic for a second.
-Joining us today is...
-There you go.
...the woman that got Twitter buzzing.
Please welcome Kaya,
the dance mom that
wasn't afraid to tell it like it is.
Kaya, AKA "Black Patsy."
Take a look at this.
-And what is your daughter's name?
-Nicaya.
So what's your daughter's
dance background like?
I know you had mentioned no acro.
-We don't do acro.
-We are so into acro here.
Acro is for gymnasts.
We're just dancers.
We don't do acro tricks.
There's a lot of other kids
who want to dance on this team.
So I don't know why
she would just get to walk in
and be on it when there's other kids
who've had to go through--
Other kids don't have
a resume like hers.
You don't want anybody else
on the team that could potentially
push your daughter to the back burner.
I'm not talking to you.
But you're talking about me
and my child's presence.
-So I can interrupt and say...
-JILL: I didn't even--
-...what I want to say.
-I don't want to even use your name.
That's why I keep saying her.
I got a name I want to call you, too,
and not your own,
but I'm trying to be respectful.
Yes, I had a baby at 16.
Yes, I'm a lesbian.
Whatever that has to do with anything,
I see potential in my child.
But it's like you just
jumped down on me
like I'm trying to invade this team.
You called every one of us liars, haters.
-You some haters. You some liars.
-That's a name.
-Especially you.
-Oh, yeah, okay.
KAYA: You are phony as hell.
-So are you.
-You don't--
-CHRISTI: You know what?
-From what I see, you--you are fake.
I'm not phony at all.
Who I am is exactly
who I come across as.
Yeah, a bitch.
That's what you are.
You don't know a thing, bitch.
-I'll be that bitch.
-Don't let the door hit your (bleep)
-on the way out then.
-See, you want to watch your mouth
because I ain't the rest
of these dance mamas.
I'm not a doctor like Holly, boo.
I'm from the hood.
Believe that.
So Kaya, I have to ask you.
I would never call you "Black Patsy."
But you call yourself "Black Patsy."
How would you like for me
to refer to you?
-You can just call me Kaya.
-JEFF: Call you Kaya.
All right, Kaya it is.
So Kaya, the--the first thing
I have to ask you
is why do you call yourself "Black Patsy?"
My mom gave me that name.
And it just kind of caught on
at the studio from...
Patsy Ramsey.
And so she kind of thought
I was a crazy stage mom.
And then another mom called me that
when my daughter started competing.
And it just kind of caught on.
All right, so Nicaya, your daughter,
is a beautiful dancer.
What initially brought you
to the Abby Lee Miller Company?
Her reputation for making stars.
And Nicaya is a star.
So how do you feel about
being a new mom
trying to fit in with this group?
I wouldn't say I'm trying to fit in
with this group.
But I'm just the new mom.
I don't want to fit in with the group.
I want her to be a part of this team.
But I don't want to fit in
with the moms.
Who was the one that gave you
the strongest impression?
-Christi.
-JEFF: Christi?
-Mm-hmm.
-JEFF: So why did you and Christi clash?
I don't know. Why did Christi have
such a problem with me?
I didn't understand why Abby
would allow someone who came in,
especially after the way
Abby explained it.
I think she said stocked.
CHRISTI: I think you did say stocked.
But...
she just let someone
walk in off the street--
So you didn't see any room
for improvement on your team?
You didn't think that
she was an asset to your team?
CHRISTI: It didn't matter.
The fact was it was late
in the season.
We were on the road to nationals.
And she didn't audition.
Your issue was with what Abby did.
Why didn't you take that out with her?
Why were you just so--
I didn't say a word to you.
I believe you started with me.
And I defended myself.
No, I think you started with me.
I mean, from the day I walked in there,
it's like you had an issue with me.
If it was with Abby,
you should have talked to her
about the way she runs her business...
-CHRISTI: I did.
-...not me.
SINGER: ♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
JEFF: Thank you, Kaya, for coming.
So Jill, you seem
very uncomfortable right now.
-Well...
-JEFF: What--what's going on
-on between the two of you?
-JILL: ...Kaya said she doesn't want
to be a part of the team.
She doesn't want to make friends.
-And I think Abby always makes it a...
-That's--
...point to say there's so many
other children in this studio
who want this opportunity.
So why would you allow
a stranger to come in
and have the opportunity
that you want for students
that have been loyal customers
for so many years?
-It was the--
-But you made it a point
to always make me feel
like I did something wrong.
Well, you know what?
That's your perception.
-You made it your point.
-CHRISTI: Okay, well, then--
Because she was no threat
to your child when she was there,
-or was she?
-CHRISTI: You know what?
If you don't see my point of view,
then we're going to have
to just agree that we disagree.
So Kaya, when you came in,
do you feel like the ladies
went out of their way
to make you feel uncomfortable?
Or do you feel like you really stirred
the pot yourself?
I didn't stir the pot.
I think that Melissa and Holly
did the best they could
to make me feel comfortable.
I understand that you guys
have an alliance with them
because you've been working
with them for so long.
Well, it seems like you held your own.
Well, yeah, she wanted to beat us up.
We were ready to jump you,
though, for our team.
I mean, we don't do that.
And if you ever would want
your child on the team,
we don't talk to one another--
Are you serious?
Have you--do you--
do watch the show at all?
Yes, I'm totally serious.
There's a line, and we don't cross it.
KAYA: You--you don't talk
to each other like that?
We don't cross the line.
You telling Christi
you're going to F her up
is crossing the line.
I think I had an issue with both of you
because they were talking
about somebody who came out
or supposed to be gay,
and I kept hearing the (bleep) word
get thrown around.
-Oh, I've never said that word.
-I've never said that word--
It was not directed towards me.
It was between the two of you guys.
-Me?
-KAYA: Yes.
KAYA: Nobody's gonna own up to it.
-I wish they would play the tapes back.
-CHRISTI: You know what?
I have lots of gay friends.
-I have no problem with homosexuality.
-That's always the issue.
-I have lots of gay friends.
-CHRISTI: I do.
I have lots of Black friends,
all of that. Either way...
-Well, Melissa doesn't even think you are.
-KAYA: ...we don't throw...
-KAYA: Excuse me?
-She thinks that that's just a front,
-that you're not a lesbian.
-Who cares if you're gay or not?
-I don't care.
-KAYA: Who thinks it's just a front?
Melissa said
I don't think she's a lesbian
because you said you wanted
to date her brother.
My partner's name
is tattooed on my back.
And I can call her if you'd like.
I mean, that's not one
I just throw out there for fun.
I'm really a lesbian.
I'm not really Black, though.
Was that obvious?
-Yeah.
-I really am a lesbian, though.
But she was confused
because you said you wanted to go out
-with her brother.
-KAYA: I was making a joke with her
just like I joked and said
you had a nice ass.
It was a joke.
I didn't know you said I had a nice ass.
-JEFF: So Melissa--
-It's a flat one.
(interposing voices)
-No.
-KAYA: Okay. That's--
So Christi, I got--I got one.
Have you ever had
another woman tell you
she's going to F you up?
No, I can't say I have.
I've never, either,
and I kind of got nervous. But I--
we really did have to think--
we thought maybe
we were gonna have to get in a rumble.
Did you think--did you think
things were gonna get...
-MELISSA: I did. I did, absolutely.
-...throw down?
Maybe perhaps I might have
to pull your hair.
I felt like I was
in a high school bathroom.
-I was running out.
-Okay.
Jill was like, I'm going to have
to pull hair, you know.
We don't do that.
We don't cross the line.
Stop saying what we don't do
because you've been crossing the line
ever since this show started,
all of you have.
So don't say what you don't do
because you're a bunch
-of bitter, toxic ass women.
-JILL: ...you come in and judge.
So why would you want
to be a part of this?
If that's what a dance mom is,
I don't want to be that.
I want this for my daughter.
And that's it. It's about my child.
I see you guys make it about yourselves.
It's not about--it's about my child.
That's it.
You said that
you felt betrayed by Holly.
Why?
When Nicaya first walked
into the studio,
-how Nia's face just lit up...
-HOLLY: I remember that.
...and it wasn't because
that's a new dancer.
She lit up because wow,
there's another one of me here.
There was another Black person there.
And I just think that was special.
And I would think that
you would embrace
that there's more diversity on the team,
that you would have been
more accepting of Nicaya,
whether we stalked Abby,
if that's her word.
Whatever the case is, I think that
you would have had my back more.
And it's kind of like--
-But we don't treat Holly or Nia...
-I'm not talking to you.
-I am not--and please--
-...any differently
-than we treat anybody else.
-Hold on. Let's--
please don't make me go there
because maybe
you don't treat them like that.
When--when I was at the convention
and I was watching how things
were going down,
I see how your girls kind of
get into their little clique,
and they exclude Nia.
I don't think you see that...
-My kid never excludes Nia.
-...because you said once upon a time,
-that used to be the case.
-Nia has been in my home.
-Chloe has been--
-No--she and she probably is there,
but I'm telling you what I saw.
Let's let Holly respond.
I agree.
I said from the very beginning,
Nia did light up
when Nicaya entered the studio
because there are times
that she feels like she's the only one.
There are things that are just unique
and different,
like as simple as her hair.
That's a big issue for Nia.
And so I think
that's a wonderful thing.
And although I will say
it was great for Nia to have...
someone who I think she could relate to
on some level,
which is very good,
I am not just because someone--
you know, judging
by the color of someone's skin,
I'm gonna say, okay,
automatically you get a pass
because you're a good person.
I want to see the content
of your character first
before I judge you based
on the color of your skin.
In the dressing room
when we had that huge eruption,
that was something
out of some '70s B movie.
To me, it was almost--
it was very stereotypical.
And I had not seen that side of you
-that reflected that behavior.
-Well, yeah, because at that point
when I stepped outside
into the hallway for something,
and I hear them in there
talking about me, saying,
well, she probably can't even afford
to pay our tuition.
She's a single mom with four kids.
Things like that that I hear,
yes, that pushed me to that point.
-JEFF: So Kaya--
-Cause that's not something that
-should have been discussed.
-So Kaya, the floor is yours.
All these ladies are here.
What do you want to say to them
as a--as a whole
about how they treated you
and how they made you feel?
Well, I didn't get a chance
to really to get to meet you.
So I think you're a blast, though.
-You're funny.
-Well, thank you.
And again, I really, really like
how you embraced me
and my daughter
and made us feel so welcome.
And I hope that that was sincere
because I really, really do like you.
And I think that you need to find you
a different set of friends
because you're too good for them,
seriously.
Holly, I apologize if it was offensive
that I called you a sell-out.
I just--again, I--
I feel like I feel.
I feel like you could have done
a better job of embracing us,
even hey, just be our cheerleader
because we both are Black.
I don't know. But...
you made your point. I'm done with that.
All right, so take a look
at this side of the room.
Do I have to?
I hate to pick on you
because you've been
so quiet over there, Kelly. But...
I think you are, like, the epitome
of crazy stage mom.
I mean, like, seriously,
you are the white Patsy now,
the other white Patsy.
So why should you not like me
when you call yourself "Black Patsy?"
-KAYA: Somebody else gave me the name.
-We should, like, be partners in crime.
There is a such thing
as being too involved
in your daughter's dancing.
I think you get a little
too emotionally involved in it.
And I think it might be
because your dance career
didn't go where it was supposed to go,
or you stopped.
Whatever your reason was,
I think you're kind of living
through your kids.
And that's not a good thing.
KELLY: Okay.
(sighs) You were just, like,
way too damn tough for me.
I don't know where
you get that from, but--
CATHY:
I know. She worked at Hooters.
-Oh.
-(laughs)
-Is that where you get that from?
-For God's sake, Cathy.
-You don't get tough working at Hooters.
-No, you just get grabbed.
With all those guys
pawing all over you? You don't?
I think you're really, really bitter
and angry.
I don't know if it's something going on
in your personal life or whatever it is.
But you are just one
bitter bitch, seriously.
I don't know what I did to you.
I don't know why you had a problem
with my child being on the team,
if she was a threat to your kid,
and she was.
We didn't get to stay long enough
for us to prove it, but she was.
Oh, and you, you, you.
I think the way you feel about me
is based on whoever
is sitting next to you.
You're kind of like a chameleon.
I mean, if somebody next to you
is not liking me,
then you don't like me.
-But the thing is--
-JEFF: All right, so--
--the thing is, Kaya, I think you don't--
you didn't give us a chance.
You made--
you came into the studio
with your own assumptions
and judgments.
Like, when you first entered
the dance studio,
like, I was trying to make small talk.
And it was--it was very hard
not to be defensive
because you came in and said
you didn't think acro
was a real style of dance
and that we weren't really charismatic
or entertaining with our dance.
So already...
-JILL: I wasn't here to make friends.
-...I was a little bit on edge.
I'm like, who is this person
who just walked in?
It's like, this is our second home.
And you're like a guest
or a visitor in the home.
And you're already, like,
you're critiquing everything.
If somebody walks into your home,
do you just sit there
and just automatically--
No, but I wouldn't walk in and say,
I don't like your rug, your shoes,
your face, and all this other stuff.
You asked me my opinion,
and I gave it to you. You asked me.
I didn't come right in there just saying,
hey, I didn't like your recital.
I think the acro is not a real,
you know, dance.
It's not--I didn't--you asked me.
So what was I supposed to do?
Don't you value honesty?
I think--I think we do.
I think constructive criticism
is--is a good thing.
But what you did was a little over--
it's a little overboard
compared to what we're used to.
-That's all.
-JEFF: All right, well, Kaya,
thank you so much for coming.
I'm sitting down with the fascinating
women of Dance Moms
Now, with all the drama
and all the heartache,
I actually have a chance now
to sit down
with the real stars of the show,
the girls.
Welcome, ladies. How are you?
GIRLS: Good. How are you?
All right, so I want to--
I want to introduce each of you.
So we've got Melissa's daughters,
Mackenzie and Maddie,
Kelly's daughters, Brooke and Paige,
-Christi's daughter Chloe.
-Hi.
JEFF: Jill's daughter, Kendall,
Holly's daughter, Nia,
and, of course,
Cathy's daughter, Vivian.
So happy to have you guys here.
You been having fun?
GIRLS: Yes. Yes.
Well, we've sure been having
a lot of fun watching you.
So I've got one question
for each of you.
So Nia, here's what--
here's what I want to know from you.
So what's your best memory
of the past two seasons
of being on Dance Moms?
Probably just being with my friends
and learn--
and getting better as a dancer.
Well, you know, the thing is,
you really have gotten
a lot better as a dancer
because we've watched you
from season to season
to season get better
and better and better.
Does that feel good?
NIA: Definitely.
JEFF: So what do your friends
treat you like when you go to school?
They treat me how any other friend
would treat me.
So Mackenzie,
tell me what is the favorite part
about your makeup?
(chuckles) Lip gloss.
JEFF: Lip gloss.
All right, so next up,
I've got a question for Maddie.
What's your favorite part
about being on the show?
MADDIE: Probably my favorite part
about being on the show
is learning a dance every week
and competing them.
JEFF: Well, winning doesn't hurt,
either, does it?
(chuckles) No.
JEFF: (chuckles)
Tell me what your friends say.
Do they have a million questions
about what's it like and--
Sometimes the boys do.
JEFF: The boys do.
They're just looking
for a reason to talk to you.
JEFF: Ah.
So have you gotten a lot
more attention from the boys
-now that you're on TV?
-Yes.
-JEFF: So Mom?
-MELISSA: Yes.
JEFF: When is Maddie allowed
to go on her first date?
-16
-JEFF: 16? Okay.
So is that like a date-date
or like a date
where they get to go
to the movies and--
-A date where...
-JEFF: What's the rule?
-...they could be at my house.
-JEFF: A date where Mom's in the back?
Yes, where I can be at the house.
JEFF: A date where Mom
drives them to the date...
-Yes.
-JEFF: ...and Mom sits in the back row
-behind them.
-Yes, yes, yes.
All right, so Brooke.
Where's Brooke?
-Right here.
-All right, so Brooke,
are we going to hear
any more music from you?
Because we know
that you have a great voice.
We've heard you sing.
I really love singing.
And I hope other people do, too.
And I just really would like
to get my voice out there.
Well, I think they're going to love it.
I mean, I've seen the music video,
and I think it's amazing.
♪ Spin that record 'round and 'round ♪
♪ 'Cause I can't get enough
of that summer sound ♪
Did you have a lot of fun doing that?
Yeah, it was such a good experience.
It was definitely something different.
-JEFF: Yeah.
-I really liked it.
What was the most fun about it?
I thought it was really cool
how we all got to dance on the streets
and on top of a tour bus and stuff.
-JEFF: Yeah, that was fun.
-Yeah.
-I've ridden that tour bus myself.
-(laughter)
All right, so, Paige, here's one for you.
What's the biggest lesson
Abby has taught you?
There's a lot of them.
JEFF: Well, what are the ones
you can talk about?
Makeup tips.
When you do your eyeliner,
you have to start here and go in
because if not you'll get wrinkles.
JEFF: Oh.
And she taught us how to eat spaghetti,
how you have to roll it up on the fork,
then eat it.
-JEFF: Oh, okay.
-You can't just scoop it up.
JEFF:
Well, that's two really big lessons.
(laughter)
-So you--are you having fun?
-Did she teach you anything in dance?
JEFF: Yeah, anything about dance?
-Yes.
-JEFF: Of course.
All right, so, Chloe,
you have grown...
literally right before my eyes.
I mean, from a little girl
into you're almost a lady now.
And we've actually seen
you improve tremendously.
So where do you think
this confidence comes from?
Probably the music video
that I did last season.
And when we've won our groups
and when I've won my solos,
it just makes me feel
like I have accomplished a lot, so...
So listen, Kendall,
if you could dance with anyone
in the world, living or dead,
who would it be?
Michael Jackson maybe.
-JEFF: Michael Jackson?
-That's a good one.
-JEFF: That's a good one.
JEFF: Why Michael Jackson?
Because he can do really cool moves.
And I could probably do the moves
that he could do.
All right, so Vivian,
this is an easy one.
Who do you like better
as a dance teacher,
your mom or Abby Lee?
(laughter)
You can plead the fifth, baby.
My mom.
(laughter)
KELLY:
She knows she better say that.
Right answer, kiddo.
So kids, ladies, moms,
you guys have been working really hard.
We've done a couple of seasons.
You've been on the road now
for almost a year.
So what do you think about next year?
What do you hope to accomplish
next season, Maddie?
-More crowns.
-JEFF: More crowns?
Yes.
JEFF: Mackenzie,
you've, like, blossomed.
I mean, you were like a little kid
when we started.
And now, you're like a real dancer.
The audience on Twitter,
they go nuts when you dance.
How does that feel?
-You're, like, a big girl dancer.
-Awesome.
JEFF: It feels awesome.
So Nia, do you have any big goals
for--for next season?
Definitely my back tuck.
JEFF: Your back tuck?
So Miss Abby is going to have
to work on that one?
-NIA: Yes.
-HOLLY: What about pointing your feet?
Oh, yeah, and pointing my feet.
JEFF: And pointing your feet.
All right, so let's go over to this side.
So what do you want to accomplish
next season that you felt
like you didn't accomplish this season?
I would like to accomplish
my front aerial.
JEFF: Your front aerial?
So--so Miss Abby, how close is she
to--to accomplishing the front aerial?
She actually learned
her front aerial.
And I was right there.
I spotted her on it.
She did it beautifully.
And then she pulled a muscle in her leg,
like, the next day
and couldn't do it anymore.
So I think we're real close.
So you're--you're going to get it?
-ABBY: Yes.
-Definitely.
JEFF: All right,
we're going to be looking for that.
And Jill, what do you hope that
she's able to accomplish next season?
I hope she just continues to grow
as quickly as she grew this year.
And I hope she gets lots of solos,
lots of group dances.
I like the competitive part of dance.
I think that's how they grow.
Well, one of the things
that we've all seen
throughout the seasons
is that you guys have definitely become
much better dancers since we started.
And we can't wait to see
where you go from here.
So Kelly, what do you got planned?
What's--
Our family has a lot of thinking
and communicating to do
to figure out what we want to do
before next season starts.
Yeah. So you got to decide
whether or not
-you're going to come back or not, right?
-Mm-hmm.
JEFF: Well, we hope to see you again.
-We'll see.
-JEFF: All right.
We have some raised hands over here.
Oh, we have some hands over here.
So what--what did you have?
What's on your necklace?
These skulls?
They're all the mothers
that didn't listen.
(laughter)
I could name them one at a time.
All right, thank you so much.
What a year it's been.
Thank you, ladies.
Thank you, young ladies.
The best of luck to all of you.
I'm Jeff Collins.
Good night, everybody.
And we'll see you again next year.
SINGER:
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪